In the previous lesson,
we learned that funnel analysis is a great technique to
identify areas where users drop off in pursuit of a goal.
Breaking funnel analysis done by user segments
allows product managers to dig even deeper into that data.
A product manager who performs such analysis will likely learn
valuable information about how to
optimize a product's features for different types of users.
Segment analysis of funnels follows four basic steps.
First, you must create the overall funnel.
Just like we discussed in the last lesson,
you will need to determine the steps users take towards achieving the goal,
and count the number of users who complete each step.
Next, as discussed in the previous section,
you'll need to determine which user segments are available in
the data that you think might perform differently in the funnel.
These user segments are the ones you will apply to the funnel analysis.
The third step of segment analysis of a funnel
is to recreate the funnel for each group within a segment.
For example, how many users on a mobile device completed
each step versus how many users on a tablet completed each step,
versus how many users on a desktop completed each step.
By generating this information,
you will have the data necessary to compare user experiences.
The final step is to analyze the data
to look for groups within a segment that dropped out of
the funnel or on a particular step in the funnel at
a rate that is noticeably higher or lower than average.
If the segment you're analyzing doesn't impact how users complete the funnel,
there might not be any difference in the drop off rates among segment groups.
For example, men and women may use a feature in
the same way with no difference in outcome between gender.
Not every difference between users will result in a different style of using a product.
But if a particular group of users isn't getting the experience they need,
this will likely be reflected in a dropout rate that is higher than average.
Once such a pattern is identified,
you can talk to those users and run experiments to find ways to optimize
the user experience and boost funnel conversion for all user segments.